Hi, this is Dr. Grande. I hope you find this video useful. If that's the case, please like it and subscribe to my channel. As always, thanks for watching.es the feeling itself the um the the the worry about not being prepared, interfere with preparing? Yes. Yes. It's really hard. So like when I'm in the middle of being worried, I'm it's really hard for me to focus. So I can't focus on like what I need to do because I feel like my mind is on a lot of different things and I can't focus on, you know, exactly what I should be doing. It's just like I'm worried about, you know, all the different aspects. Alright, so your ability to to concentrate through the hard work of preparing. Yeah. Yeah. To like focus my energy on the right things. I'm just like wasting time worrying. All right, so this this f excessive worrying and and and all this um interfering of preparing, all this goes on right up until you're getting ready to present? Yeah. And then like while I'm presenting. So let's talk about that. Let's let's go into the actual day of presenting. So we have the successive word coming in, it's interfered with your ability to prepare. It's distressing for you. Yeah. Right. Um now it's uh what in class? These presentations are in class. Yeah. So it's you're in you're in the classroom. Do you um are you the only one to present during that class or does it rotate through several people it depends on the presentation. Sometimes there's like one or two other people that have to present that night, depending on like how long the topic is. All right, well let's use the uh the last time you've presented that class is a as a tempo. What was the order? Like what order did you go in there? Um, the one well the one that I really messed up I think of was first, but usually like I'm like second maybe. Okay. So for this uh example, let's say you're through the second. Okay. So you're sitting in in the classroom and another student is presenting. Ye.ah. What's going through your mind then? I feel like I am totally zoned up. Like I'm not even paying attention to what that person's saying because I'm so worried about how I'm gonna mess it up. Um, you know, I'm I'm starting to like be sweaty, like my hands are clammy, my heart's starting to race a little bit and I'm just totally zoned out on what they're doing. I'm just, you know, worrying about what's gonna happen when I get up there. Alright, so in that moment as you're seated, you're not really watching their presentation much because you have these strong uh kind of or or somewhat strong physical symptoms. You have uh your heart racing a bit, you said. Yeah. Sweaty palms. You're zoned out. Yeah. Have you ever felt the uh need, desire to like run out of the room? Yes, it's funny you should say that. I was a little bit hesitant to mention that, but I kind of I do. I feel like uh you need to find an excuse to like use the bathroom or I just need to get out of there. Yeah, so you what what do you feel's most pressuring you to to leave the room? Like what what symptom? Um, I would say that just like my anxiety and my heart rate are starting to increase and I feel like I just need to get out of there. And what what thoughts going through your mind right then? Like so it's take that kind of most severe moment when you're you're uh let's just say we're still before the presentation. Okay. Okay. So you're sitting at the desk and your heart rate's elevated and you're not focusing on what they're doreing, you're zoned out, your anxiety's high. Yeah. What thought it's going through your mind right then? I think I'm thinking like, I'm gonna bomb this anyway, so I might as well just, you know, not go through the stress of having to do it. Like I've already in my head I know that it's gonna end badly. So I've already f I've already failed. Right. So there's no sense in getting up there and maybe if I don't get up there, you know, I guess it couldn't be any worse. So I might as well just leavere you embedded that the professor or other students will see that you were really anxious? Yeah. I don't want I figure if I leave then people won't willt just maybe think I was sick or whatever and it'll be a better situation if I just left than having to see me up there, you know, sweating and all this these other symptoms that I have when I actually get up there. It would be better just to leave before that starts. Okay. Okay. So so better to be thought ill that you just had to leave 'cause you were sick. Yeah. have them wonder what happened than to just be up in front of everybody, you know. You know. Very embarrassing. Yeah, that would be that would be uh a very undesirable outcome for you. Right. Right. So as you're debating that thought. Like as that's coming to your head and you're you're thinking, I just need to Yeah, I just gotta get out of here. What happens there? So th so we're maybe we're maybe what, fifteen minutes before you present? So tell me about that. So you have that thought, you wanna flee. Right. And I'm looking at the clock and saying, you know, like how much more time in this presentation before I have to go. Like should I go? Should I not go? What are the consequences of running out? You know, and kind of playing out which would be worse. Have you ever had it to run out? Um, once I went to the bathroom to try to like calm myself down or talk to myself or, you know, like cool off my face. Mm-hmm. Um but I came back. And you presented. Yeah, and then I presented it. Alright, so you you survived one of the more stressful. Yeah. I almost felt like I was gonna be ill. I was so stressed that day. Yeah. That was very very tough one, yeah, that's that particular day. Um you did survive it. Yeah. Yeah. Which is very unpleasant. Yeah. Alright. So now we're now we're uh right about to where it's time to get up and present. Right. So let's let's say in this scenario. Uh you haven't fled, but you had those thoughts. Yeah. Right, so you're anxious and you have some physical sympt uh symptoms going on. You get up and it's time to present. What's the sequence from this point on? So typically like I go to load my presentation at this point, like I have my new cards or whatever in front of me. I'm like shaking at this point. I'm so I don't know if it's scared or worried or maybe a combination of everything. And I'm just like sweating. My heart is racing. Like I almost feel dizzy. I'm just so stressed out about what's gonna happen and then, you know, I'm starting to speak and then the presentations are usually like twenty minutes or so. Okay. So I have to I stay up there for the duration and I'm just like, you know, sweating and then I'm wondering like, are people looking at me? Are people can people see it? You know, am I gonna forget something? So the so the same thoughts are I wonder if they can see how anxious I am. Yes. Uh I wonder if I' gm gonna do poorly on the presentation. Right, or they think I'd been lazy and I didn't pretpare, or are they gonna think that, you know, I'm dumb or I don't know, you know, what I'm doing? What are they gonna think about me? Right, so they might they might think less of you as a person. Right. Or like be judging me. Okay. Yeah. So there's a number of uh concerns that kinda going through your mind in that moment. So when does this start to turn around? So you start presenting it's twenty minutes. you you initially get up there and uh get your your presentation up uh on the uh like the projection monitor, something like that. Yeah. Um when does it start to turn the corner? Um, it depends. Sometimes I settle down a little bit, but then usually like that I I I get some sort of rhythm I think and then but then it gets anxiety again until I get my grades. Do you know what I mean? And I'm like until 'cause I feel like I'm gonna do poorly until that happens. When d when do you receive the grades? Sometimes like sh she usually doesn't give them them that day, but like often like the next day or the day after. So is does that intense anxiety that you're having while you're presenting lasts all the way to No. It's it definitely like dissipates once I can like go sit down. Okay. So so the so the next big drop off for symptoms would be when you're done the presentation. Yeah, when eyes are maybe no longer on me, they've moved on to somebody else. So I figure like, okay, they forgot about me, I'm safe for right then. But then there's this other worry of now we have to see what the grade's gonna be. Right. And I convinced myself that I did poorly. So the thought that's coming through your mind is I'm gonna receive a bad grade. Yeah, and that everyone saw me, you know, sweating and all these symptoms that I have, everyone is judging me.